---
layout: post
title: Git Init Katie
---

Hi! My name is Katelyn but my friends call me Katie. I went to school at Seton Hall University for History and Classical Studies. I became fluent in Latin and Ancient Greek and when I graduated I realized there weren’t many jobs for me without going back and getting my MA. I took a few months off to figure out if I really wanted to pursue a higher degree. In the meantime, I was living paycheck to paycheck, nannying for families I knew from college. I was definitely struggling. I was living in Hoboken, NJ where the cost of living is pretty high. I was paying $300 a month just to park my car! I knew I needed a more stable career especially because I had plans to move to NYC in a couple of months. I tried exploring different paths, like archeology. I found that there were small research jobs available but nothing that would lead me to a career. I was getting worried that I’d have to choose doing something I liked to do and being poor or having to do something I hated to just get by. I knew I had an affinity for solving puzzles so I decided to try to find a career path that could involve that.

I moved to NYC and realized that the cost of living was even higher than expected, I turned to a family member who is very good at what he does. He’d come home every night sharing stories of problems he had to solve or success stories of launching a new platform and encouraged me to get into the tech industry. I hesitated at first, what if our paths crossed and he ended up being my boss? That worry quickly disappeared when I realized that this is a profession where I could advance quickly if I put in the time and effort, unlike archeology, where advancement seems largely based on seniority. It's true that tech companies are experiencing growing pressure to diversify their workforce which is predominantly male. I took that as personal challenge to overcome any obstacles being female might entail but also as incentive to take advantage of the great programs that are tailored for new developers like me. I started my coding journey with CodeAcademy. I completed their free HTML, CSS, and Ruby courses on my own and created my first website, https://puppies.chrisboylan.com, but I soon realized I needed more experience before I was job ready.It took me a while to find Bloc, the remote bootcamp I am currently at, but I’m happy I found it! I chose to take their three month Ruby and Ruby on Rails course and so far I have completed two projects and started the third. It’s probably the best decision I ever made. I’m looking at being able to work at something I enjoy doing every day, and still being able to make ends meet while doing it. Now, I'm looking forward to digging into source code instead of dirt. Stick with me because I'm going to have a lot of great stories to tell.
