---
layout: post
title: Keith Robinson Post 

---
Work Harder!
* Ok Surpise me!
* Is Coffee a food group?
* Life is good.
Work Harder!
 

I worked for hours and hours on a project. Checked it again and again. My confidence was shaken. I starting questioning my abilities. Starting questioning others. Only to find another set of eyes point out that ATRIBUTE is spelled ATTRIBUTE. It’s the journey. 

For the last fifteen years, Las Vegas has been my residency. Working in the hospitality industry. I have worked for two exclusive properties. Both properties provided golf facilities to very high end clientele. Me! I was a golf caddie. Now, a caddie in Las Vegas at these two properties is unique. From the Forbes richest people list, well if they play golf I have probably caddied for them. Many have become friends and mentors.  I have caddied for three presidents. For men and women who run the countries largest companies. For billionaires. For one-timers. Economics to play on this property, could make a mortgage payment for most americas. A plethora celebrities. Most who were not very interesting. The individual who starting a business from an idea to taking it to a point where the company employees tens to thousands of people is a much more interesting story. 

Name dropping is not a professional etiquette.  

Yes golf has been part of my life. Things change. The game has changed. The clientele has changed. The property is changing. And I am changing. 

I probably need to explain what I did. My knowledge of the game was important, but it was way down the list of that I did. I have been a welcome ear to a great man whom just got news from his doctor that he had terminal cancer. He was told by the doctors to get personal affairs in order, because he only had a few months left. For eighteen holes he spoke about how to break with news to his family. A month later he past. 



As SNL’s Chico Escuela once said, baseball been berry berry good. Well, golf has been equally good. So, why the change. Why the pursuit of this new direction. Its really simple. Because I can.  

Before golf, I was in the manufacturing industry. Working in the tool and die business. Initially, programming CNC machining centers. All the way back with Fanuc programming. Then to AutoCad and Solidworks. I always enjoyed creating a physical “thing”. But the digital footprint of designing a virtual “thing” was a big part of it. From there I moved into program manager. Working with most of the major hardware technology companies.

I don’t entry this career change without some diligences, I have sought advise or mentoring from  a few very successful individuals within the software community. 

I chose bloc.io for two primary reasons. First the flexible of the program to my schedule. and secondly and maybe more important the mentorship relationship.  

I chose software development because every day I watch it change the world. I watched social media help elect two presidents. Watched change the faith of countries. Watched it change us as consumers. Watched it make the world smaller. It has create innovations most of us thought were impossible. I have watched software help friends find their spouse. That's just weird.

There is some bad with the good. But its how one chooses to look at the world. I see good. 
I want to be a part of this. 

During my journey through bloc.io, I have found that mastering coding has many parallels to golf. It is forever changing and no one has mastered it. Work Harder.


The biggest challenge you've faced when learning to develop?

I don’t speak mandarin. I currently work with clients from China. My first experiences were a process of stumbling and bumbling to understand their mannerisms, the customs and their behaviors.  

That describes my new adventure into software development. I don’t speak (read) Ruby and had one idea what Rails was; the protocols, the rules, the way the language is dependent on a given operating system, the way to interact with terminal and its commands. I had no idea  what Github was. Or how to use a local server.

So, like a foreign language (Chinese Mandarin), there is much more then just  being able to speak a phrase:  早上好  (Good Morning).  The Bloc program definitely gave me an introduction to Ruby on Rails, J query, angular, HTML, i.e.  From Class to Arrays to Hashes. 

Time Time Time. I work full time, I studied full time, and I have a life beyond that. Relationships and hobbies. Which leaves little time for sleep.   Let me add, the older I get, the faster time moves. So, setting time priorities is a big thing. If an activity does not lead me toward a goal or produce a productive result. It is not on my calendar. Television media does not offer me content of value.  I’m particular about being on time. 


The exercises of Code Wars… My initial approach was to try to solve a math problem. One answer. I looked for a process like “Laws of Arithmetic”. One path. One solution. In part, that was true. But, the process was to make the program run.  There were and are multiple ways to code, in many different languages, and within a language many different components. All will work.  

There were times and still are when I felt I knew nothing about programming. But looking back I have come along way. Again, the more I learn the more I realize I still know very little about writing code. So, work harder. The more one develops and writes code, the more the vastness  the picture becomes.

Where to address a problem, where do I started the application, what tools to use. Do I use HTML strictly, J query, or Angular. Is the issue best dealt with on the back-end or front-end or even both. 



