---
layout: post<br>
title: What Being a Front-End Developer Means to Means
---

When I first started at Bloc, the idea of a 'front-end developer' was very obscure to me.  I couldn't have defined it, or told you what one did.  There was some vague ideas of 'they work with computers and do websites'.  Now that I've been working on a more immersion-based education, my ideas of what it means are becoming much more solid.  <br><br>I subscribe to a tech email that sends me daily tech articles, which I may or may not read regularly, but what I have read has  definitely given me a more fleshed-out impression of what a front-end developer does and how they affect people's browsing experience.  To my delight, what they do is something that matters to me.  
<br>Bad websites have always been a pet peeve of mine.  I'm not conceited enough to think they don't bother most people, but I think I get a little more pedantic about what bothers me.  Slow-loads, annoying graphics, repetitious information, hard-to-find links, dead-links, bad grammar and spelling, intrusive ads, these are all things that will have me either **avoiding** a site, thinking **negatively** about its product/premise or just flat-out **searching elsewhere** for the information I need.  When I find a smooth, sleek, visually arresting website, I will honestly show  it to other people and think about it later on.  Thankfully, I found that these preferences of mine fit right in with a person who aspires to be a front-end web developer.
<br><br>My main problem is creativity.  I don't typically have _BIG IDEAS_.  I can't think of how to make things better sometimes.  Usually I like websites or apps because they work well for me or deliver what I need, and when things do what they're supposed to, I can't think of a way to make them better.  I'm satisfied.  Luckily for me, through my Mturk work, I once had to analyze a paper written by a college student.  It may or may not have been a real paper, but the information I found inside was easy to verify and what I found was comforting and encouraging to someone like me, who suffers from permanent roadblocks.  What I learned was this:  **Creativity is NOT inherent or static**.  What you're born with can **always** be changed.  You can learn, if you're willing, to become more creative.  I'm a big believer in the Google machine, so I did what I usually do when I'm curious about something and found more material to read.  I can't say that I'm an idea machine or anything now, but I do feel more **confident** about my ability to create and deliver on other people's visions.  I know now that being non-creative isn't a character flaw I can't escape, it's just a skill I can develop if I use the proper tools. <br><br>
Being a front-end developer, to me, means bringing someone's (including my own) vision to life.  It means providing a quick answer, appropriate visuals and an **overall pleasant experience** on the internet.  Have you ever visited a website that felt like it was tailored _just for you_, like you walked into your own clubhouse?  That's what I want to do.  It's an endless process, but that just means it's also endlessly rewarding.