---
layout: post<br>
title: My Experience at Bloc
---

The very first thing I can remember that started me on my journey with Bloc was when a very lazy friend of mine received his degree in computer programming.  I've been working on Amazon Mturk for years, and have always been very computer-oriented, and we often discussed technology, computer programming and jointly helped mutual friends with their computer questions, so when he got his degree **and actually got a job**, my curiosity was piqued.  Now, this friend of mine was not the most motivated individual I knew (had no interest in moving out his parents' at age 32, took 7 years to finish school, etc.), and I knew I was at least his intellectual equal.  If he could do it, I definitely had the skills.  <br><br>My biggest problem was my **age**.  In my later 30's, my main work experience was in the service industry.  I was a _great_ bartender, but always knew that sort of work couldn't be forever.  It's physically demanding, and financially fickle, plus I seemed to be swiftly approaching my tolerance limit for dealing with drunk customers and cheap tippers.  I was becoming very unhappy with my work, and it showed.  At the same time, my husband and I realized we running out of time to have another child, which we desperately wanted.  
<br>I started researching online programming schools.  There was an article published by the blog Lifehacker from 2015 and that's where I first heard about **Bloc**. Although the article doesn't mention it by name, I was able to better understand what an online bootcamp entailed, and after reading through the reader comments (where Bloc _was_ mentioned by name), I was able to hear about some real-life experiences and was linked to more information that got me pretty fired up.  I checked out the Bloc website and was sold. The premise seemed like something that would work with my life and schedule, allowing me to continue my at-home work with Mturk without sacrificing so much of my time that I would be **40** before I could start working.  It also gave me a great excuse to quit my bartending job and get pregnant.  I was going to be home all day, on the computer!  What could be better?
<br><br>The sign-up was very easy, getting financing was a breeze and I was all set up to start my web development journey in about a week.  Because charts and lists are things that mesh with my mind well, I really enjoyed the **roadmap page**, where you can track your progress.  What I _didn't_ enjoy was the 'on my own-ness' of the learning.  It wasn't that I don't like the solitude, or can't find the motivation to work by myself, for those were skills that I already knew I possessed.  It was that I thrive off of **direction**, or having a clear set of rules to work by.  The ambiguity of programming was a shock to my system, and has been something I struggle with to this day.  Oh, I can accomplish the same output with 100 different codes?  Mind fritzed!  I didn't know before starting at Bloc that I see things in such a **black-or-white manner**, and while it's been very frustrating to work through, I know it's helped me grow as a person to expand my mind and start thinking like a real **problem solver**.  I needed to start seeing problems and challenges as mazes, instead of stoplights.  To effectively create code, you need to move forward, adjust your perspective and then continue, maybe to the side, and even back a few steps.  I spend time **every day** learning, either expanding my knowledge or practicing what I already know, and I can already tell this is going to be the way things are from here on out if I want to commit to life as a web developer.