---
layout: post<br>
title: Overcoming Challenges While Learning
---

Learning to develop has been nothing **but** challenges, frankly.  What's that old adage?  A dream doesn't become reality through magic?  This is something I try to ingrain in my daughter's head; things you want usually just don't come to you naturally.  Every skill you truly desire to have is one you're going to have to work for.  Of course, it's much harder to live by old adages than it is to spew them out to cantankerous 11-year-old ears.  <br><br>It's very easy to say pithy things like, 'My biggest challenge has been myself', but that has been absolutely true.
I truly believe the only thing that has kept me going has been my **WANT**.  I **want** to be a developer, I **want** that job, I **want** the paycheck, I **want** the title.  Gaining the knowledge, however, has been daunting, to say the least.  There is just _so much_ to learn.  Not only is the code endless, it's constantly changing, constantly being updated, platforms come into vogue, others go out and you are only limited to what your brain can come up with.  It's like standing in front the Wall, knowing you have to go through and live with the Wildlings, but you have no idea how to survive over there.  
<br><br>Where do you start?  That's the million-dollar question and was the main challenge for me.  Bloc provided that starting point for me and that alone was worth the price of admission to me.  Otherwise, I would have been dithering around thinking about how I wanted to be a developer for who knows how long.  And once you get started, the sense of relief is fleeting since almost immediately you are confronted by how much you **don't** know and how **impossible** it is to know it all.  I overcame this challenge with the realization that I won't ever know it all and I don't need to and that is completely ok.  What I can always do is learn, and I know I'm smart enough to find the resources and answers I need.
<br><br>Another major challenge I overcame was finding the appropriate time to learn.  Web development isn't a skill that I could put down, take a break from and then pick up a few weeks later.  I tried that and found that I'd forgotten things, and needed to go back and re-do chapters or concepts.  Although this did result in me being much more proficient in certain topics, due to the double-studying, it also wasted my time, and as I've mentioned before, I'm An Old (for someone starting a new career) and my time is at a premium.  So I tried to start first thing in the morning when I was fresh and energized.  This worked, except I wasn't able to work while learning, so I swiftly ran out of money (bad form when you're expecting).  Then I tried at night.  Also impossible when prego since  I fell asleep pretty early.  So I started finding new ways to learn.  I found a good mobile app and did coding challenges while I was out walking.  I found an e-book that linked to exercises so I could keep coding throughout the day, even if it was in small fits and starts.  What worked for me was that I **didn't** put myself on a strict schedule.  Not that that is the way everyone should do it, it's just what worked for me _under these circumstances_.  My point is, you find a way to get the learning done.  It's very important that you realize what works for you under **your** specific circumstances. That's how you overcome that challenge.  There are no rules saying HOW you need to get it done, **just get it done**.