---
layout: single
title: RVM and Jekyll install for Jenkins
---

With setting up CI/CD, I wanted to make sure that I covered the actual steps I took instead of going off on a tangent. Though, much was learned when going off on said tangents.

I would be remiss if I didn't write about RVM.

The impetus of deploying my site was to integrate CI/CD, and I use Jekyll to generate static webpages which will then in turn _be_ the website when hosted. Simple, I thought.

However, going back to my `ruby` days, one of the things that I hated was the way that I may have been developing on a "up to date" ruby/rails setup, however, Jekyll dependencies may have fallen behind.

And in comes a well known version management system called [RVM](https://rvm.io).

The best way to install RVM on a system, is to follow the instructions. Since I'm using Debian on my webserver, installing as mentioned on the landing page is simple.

Additonally, I relied on the following to setup the `jenkins` user environment to properly call `rvm` found directly on their webpage [here](https://rvm.io/integration/jenkins). **Remember, you must run as the `jenkins` user**


```
su jenkins # need to log into jenkins as we _want_ jenkins to use rvm to build
gpg2 --recv-keys 409B6B1796C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3 7D2BAF1CF37B13E2069D6956105BD0E739499BDB
\curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
[[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && source "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm"
```

Additionally add the below lines into `~/.rvmrc` as the jenkins user:

```
rvm_install_on_use_flag=1
rvm_project_rvmrc=1
rvm_gemset_create_on_use_flag=1
```

You can test by typing something like `type rvm | head -n 1` and you should get an output. I learned that you should see this output `type rvm | head -n 1` to have rvm work correctly on the `jenkins` user environment. 

That should be good enough to set your environment up in the meantime.

Continue as the `jenkins` user on your build machine. Now, we're going to be installing the ruby `gem`s that will install `jekyll` and `bundler`. `jekyll` is the ruby gem that is building the current webpage content for this website. `bundler` is a ruby "package" retriever that reads a file like `Gemfile`, and fetches packages that will allow the content you create on your source code, to be built into the static `html` content.

To pre-emptively fetch this software, you should run the following if you are based on a `Debian/Ubuntu` system.

```
# ads environment variables to the .bashrc
echo '# Install Ruby Gems to ~/gems' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export GEM_HOME="$HOME/gems"' >> ~/.bashrc
echo 'export PATH="$HOME/gems/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc

# install gems
gem install jekyll bundler
```

That _should_ have you up and ready in terms of your build environment.

As a side note, I may update the `jekyll` version from `3.0` to the newest version `4.0` at a later date. They do have a upgrade path fortunately [here](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/upgrading/). What could go wrong? :)

# Disclaimer
I did omit some _MAJOR_ tweaking I had to do in order to get the porfolio to build correctly. It falls a bit out of the scope of this setup, and additonally, all the tweaking I did was not really properly captured.

However the gist of it is that there was some package mismatch that the packages listed in `Gemfile.lock` was complaining about. It was because the current stable version of `ruby` is `3.0.0`, and my `jekyll` environment worked being compiled best if using ruby version `2.7`.

There were many hoops as the `bundler` file was _really_ providing issues as it also required a _specific_ version to pull all the packages.

On top of that `rvm` was setting up _multiple_ versions of bundler as the `default` version. So, deleting all the `bundler` versions _except_ the one I needed was difficult because `gem` did not allow uninstalling a gem that was default.

All this was observed as the `jenkins` user on the build machine, and needed to be resolved in order to properly build `html` content from source via `jekyll`.

I have the links that helped me still on tabs in my browser, but, there was a lot of tweaking. Am gonig to attach said links just in case this is run into again. Though I truly hope not. 

https://talk.jekyllrb.com/t/incompatible-with-the-current-version-ruby-3-0/5821/7
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54901077/bundle-install-could-not-find-compatible-versions-for-gem-bundler
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42548445/how-to-make-a-specific-gem-version-as-default
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54165271/rails-5-0-7-multiple-default-gems-and-unable-to-uninstall-any-default-gem
